todo: edit this document to reflect sm-ssc's structure

SMOKE WEED '98 Scripts Directory Organization,
or "An applied case of application of prefixes to control order of execution".

Based on the original document for NCRX by Synikal, updated for SW98 by various
members of the NAKET Team.
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
The general idea is that the order of execution in some scripts does matter.
We can use filenames in order to load certain files before others.

It is important to note that you do not always need to follow this order,
especially if certain scripts do not require any dependencies. Typically,
most scripts do not require hierarchy setup, only certain situations
require it.

Here is how we see the general hierarchy at NAKET HQ:

00 = Initialization. Things that get called at the beginning of a theme.
This is good for things that are required by everything. It's considered bad
form to execute your own code before init, but there are ways around it if you
do need to go around it.

Examples include 00 init.lua (SM4 default) and 00 themeInfo.lua (various themes).

01 = Base. After the initialization, the base layer goes on top and adds more
core functionality to StepMania themes.

Examples include 01 base.lua (SM4 default) and various 01 files in sm-ssc's
fallback theme. In sm-ssc, these are treated differently than in normal SM4;
01 files are used for aliasing/compatibility commands, which are just as
important as 01 base.lua.
----
From here on out, these aren't officially used by the normal StepMania
developers; they were invented by other themers.

02 = Extensions. Generally, these are third party extensions, such as the KKI
Labs stuff or vyhd's Genre Generator.

03 = Theme-specific. This layer came into existence with dubaiOne/moonlight.

It should be noted that this is still talking about StepMania 4 alphas, as
sm-ssc introduces loading Scripts/folderA, Scripts/folderB, etc. (just not
Scripts/folderA/folderB/ although why would you need that?)